When you have a really large source database with massive amounts
of information in it or you don't have a very reliable internet
connection to get data over to AWS,
one option that you might decide to pursue is using DMS in
combination with the Snowball Edge device.
The way this will work is you'll start with your source and then
you'll have your DMS local replication instance.
You might install this locally on your own machines or
potentially get it working with Snowball Edge.
This would allow you to run the same tasks that you'd run through the
DMS Cloud Service and take the data inside of your source tables and
move them onto a Snowball Edge device.
Now,
this is a hardware appliance that's actually going to be sent to your
data center so you don't have to do this whole process over the open
internet and wait for the back and forth of this entire task because
when you have a lot of data, but it doesn't become convenient to do
that with the internet.
So you take the Snowball Edge device at this point and you get a
truck or AWS's way of shipping back the Snowball Edge device, and
then you'd send it back to AWS's data center.
You'd ship it over there and it would arrive at the AWS Cloud.
Now at this point,
you bring it into the AWS Cloud and the tables that you put on the Snowball
Edge device would then be loaded into your target database through the DMS
local replication instance inside of the cloud.
So this becomes a two‑part transfer from your data, first, from
your local source in an on‑premises environment,
for example,
to the Snowball Edge device using a DMS client locally in your
environment, and then sending the Snowball Edge device to the AWS Cloud
to then run the same DMS replication tasks to get the data from the
Snowball Edge device into the cloud database.
So what would some of the reasons be to use a solution like this?
Well, when your source database is massive,
this will become useful either to avoid the costs of sending
data over the internet and your ISP charging you by the size and
the amount of data that you're using or potentially just to
speed that entire process up.
Additionally, when network connectivity is an issue,
it's not just going to slow things down, but it might
cause problems in your database migration.
So if you can do it through Snowball Edge,
it might be both more efficient and more reliable to do so.
This is also a great option when you want some of the same
benefits of using DMS and allow you to have its software handle
the transfer of data from your source to your target for you. You
still get the same benefits.
Essentially,
this job just runs twice, once locally in your on‑premises
environment and once in the cloud when you're moving it from the
Snowball Edge to the cloud database. So in the next video, let's review what we've learned about DMS.